# Readme

## Introduction
This dataset is a collection of data from a group of participants ages 19-48 carrying a waist-mounted smartphone to measure how their bodies move around while they perform various daily taks, such as walking, sitting, standing, and laying.

The dataset as processed contains many different variables, but for the purposes of this simplified version of the dataset the only variables that were kept were mean and standard deviations for each form of acceleration and signal. 

Because the original dataset has 10,000+ rows, most of which are repeated  from the same subject performing the same daily task, the dataset attached to this submission and that can be generated by this script averages together rows by participant and activity. So for example, if there are two observations for a participant's body acceleration as measured by the accelerometer while walking, these two observations are averaged together. 

Data is from: 
Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.

## Getting started

Data can be downloaded from: 
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

This data comes in the form of a zip file that should be extracted to the preferred working directory. 

The working directory can be viewed in R using the getwd() command, and can be set withe setwd() command.

The extracted zip file will contain a folder called "UCI Har Dataset". If not already in the working directory, move the following files into the working directory.  
1. X_test.txt  
2. X_train.txt  
3. y_test.txt  
4. y_train.txt  
5. subject_test.txt  
6. subject_train.txt

Once these files have been placed, the script can be run using the command source("run_analysis.R").

This will generate a text file called tidy_data.txt that can be shared. 

## Reading the tidy_data.txt file.
The data is formatted in long form, with less variables but more observations. It was decided to do this because it is easier to understand the relationships in the data. 

If it is necessary to read this data back into R at some later date using the text file, the following command can be used.

	read.table("tidy_data.txt", sep = "", header = TRUE)

Thanks for your time!   


 

 